1Q) What is the difference between Delete and Truncate commands?
Delete
- Delete command is used to delete a row in a table.
- You can rollback data after using delete statement.
- It is a DML command.
- It is slower than truncate statement.

Truncate
- Truncate command is used to delete all the rows from the table.
- You cannot rollback data.
- It is a DDL command.
- It is faster.

2Q) What are the different subsets of SQL?
- DDL - Consists of the commands that can be used to define database schema.
- DML - Consists of the commands that deals with the manipulation of data present in database.
- DCL - Includes commands which deal with the rights, permissions and other controls of the database system.
- TCL - Includes commands which deal with the transaction of database.

3Q) What do you mean by DBMS? What are its different types?
A DBMS is a software application that interacts with the user, applications and the database itself to capture and analyse data.
The data stored in the database can be modified, retrieved and deleted, and can be of any type like strings, numbers, images, etc.

The different types of database are HIERARCHIAL, NETWORK, RELATIONAL, OBJECT-ORIENTED.

4Q) What do you mean by a table and field in SQL?
A table refers to a collection of data in an organised manner in form of rows and columns.
A field refers to the number of columns in a table.

5Q) What are joins in SQL?
A join clause is used to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a related column between them.
It is used to merge two tables or retrieve data from there.
There are 4 joins in SQL namely: INNER JOIN, FULL JOIN, LEFT JOIN, RIGHT JOIN.

6Q) What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2 datatype in SQL?
Char is used for strings of fixed length. For ex, char(10) can only store 10 characters and will not be able to store a string of any other length.
Varchar2 is used for character strings of variable length. For ex, varchar2(10) can store any length i.e, 6,8,2 in this variable.

7Q) What is a primary key?
A set of attributes that can be used to uniquely identify every tuple is a primary key.
So, if there are 3-4 candidate keys present in a relationship, then out of those, one can be chosen as a primary key.

8Q) What are constraints?
Constraints are used to specify the limit on the data type of the table. It can be specified while creating or altering the table statement.
NOT NULL - Ensures that a NULL value cannot be stored in a column.
UNIQUE - This constraint makes sure that all the values in a column are different.
CHECK - This constraint ensures that all the values in a column satisfy a specific condition.
DEFAULT - This constraint consists of a set of default values for a column when no value is specified.
INDEX - This constraint is used to create and retrieve data from the database very quickly.

9Q) What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
SQL is a standard language which stands for Structured Query Language based on the english language.
SQL is the core of relational database which is used for accessing and managing database.

MySQL is an open-source relational database management system that works on many platforms.
It provides multi-user access to support many storage engines and is backed by Oracle.

10Q) What is a unique key?
Unique identifies a single row in the table.
Multiple values allowed per table.
Null values are allowed.
Duplicate values are not allowed.

11Q) What is a foreign key?
Foreign key maintains referential integrity by enforcing a link between the data in two tables.
The foreign key in the child table references the primary key in the parent table.
The foreign key constraint prevents actions that would destroy links between child and parent tables.

12Q) What do you mean by data integrity?
Data Integrity defines Accuracy of data, Consistency of data, Integrity Constraints to enforce business rules on data.

13Q) What is the difference between clustered and non clustered index in SQL?
Clustered Index
- Clustered Index is used for easy retrieval of data from the database and is faster.
- Clustered Index alters the way records are stored in a database as it sorts out rows by column which is said to be Clustered Index.
- One table can only have one Clustered Index.

Non Clustered Index
- Non Clustered Index is used for easy retrieval of data from the database and is slower.
- Non Clustered Index does'nt alter the way records are stored in a database, but it creates a separate object within a table which points back to the original table rows after searching.
- One table can have many Non Clustered Index.

14Q) Write a SQL query to display the current date.
In SQL, there is a built-in function GetDate() which helps to return the current timestamp/date.
EX: SELECT GETDATE();
REsult: '2021-03-09 18:17:29.160'

15Q) What are the different types of JOINS?
INNER JOIN - This join returns those records which have values in both the tables.
FULL JOIN - This join returns all those records which either have a match in the left or the right table.
LEFT JOIN - This join returns records from the left table, and also those records which satisfy the condition fro the right table.
RIGHT JOIN - This join returns records from the right table, and also those records which satisfy the condition from the left table.

16Q) What do you mean by Denornalization?
Denornalization refers to a technique which is used to access data from higher to lower forms of a database.
It increases the performance of the entire infrastructure as it introduces redundancy into a table.
It Adds the redundant data into a table by incorporating database queries that combine data from various tables into a single table.

17Q) What are Entities and Relationships?
Entities
A person, place, or thing in the real world about which data can be stored in a database.
Tables store data that represents one type of entity. For ex, A bank database has a customer table to store customer information.
Customer table stores this information as a set of attributes(columns within the table) for each customer.

Relationships
Relation or links between entities that have something to do with each other.
For ex: The customer name is related to the customer account number and contact information, which might be in the same table.
There can also ne relationships between separate tables(for ex, customer to accounts).

18Q) What is an Index?
Performance Tuning Method
Allows faster retrieval of records from the table
Creates an entry for each value

19Q) What are different types of indexes?
Unique Index
This index does not allow the field to have duplicate values if the column is unique indexed.
If a primary key is defined, a unique index can be applied automatically.

Clustered Index
This index reorders the physical order of the table and searches based on the basis of key values. 
Each table can have one clustered index.

Non Clustered Index
Non Clustered Index does'nt alter the physical order of the table and maintains a logical order of the data.
Each table can have many non clustered indexes.

20Q) What is Normalization and what are its advantages?
Normalization is the process of organizing data to avoid duplication and redundancy.

Advantages of Normalization:
- Better database organization.
- More tables with smaller rows.
- Efficient data access.
- Greater flexibility for queries.
- Quickly find the information.
- Easier to implement security.
- Allows easy modification.
- Reduction of redundant and duplicate data
- More compact database.
- Ensure consistent data after modification.

21Q) What is the difference between DROP and TRUNCATE commands?









